
# Liberal Arts

While a vocational education appeals to the younger generation, a liberal arts education
remains the superior choice. Sanford J. Ungar’s “The New Liberal Arts,” he argues the benefits
of a liberal arts education over vocational. Although those who dive straight into the workforce
after high school make immediate income, they lack the traits that those who acquire a liberal
arts education receive. A liberal arts education creates better citizens.
A liberal arts education grants equality to its subjects. Thanks to the liberal arts provided
through America’s education system, those born into nothing receive the same opportunities as
those born into well educated rich families. Ungar explains, “This is a country where a mixedrace
child raised overseas by a struggling single mother who confronts impossible odds can grow
up to be president. It is precisely a liberal arts education that allowed him to catch up and move
ahead,” Through liberal arts, a student’s success depends on the amount of work that they are
willing to input. Without liberal arts, the poor only have the workforce to look to. When a social
class is limited in their potential, it creates a preconception that only the wealthy perform the
significant actions in a society. Ungar states, “[T]he rich folks will do the important thinking, and
the lower classes will simply carry out their ideas. That is just a form of prejudice and cannot be
supported intellectually” Thanks to liberal arts, this issue is not a reality in the United States
because the poor have the opportunity to do more important work than the wealthy population.
A liberal arts education cultivates traits that employers look for in potential employees.
Today’s employers look for well-rounded and responsible citizens to employ. Ungar states, “A
growing number of corporations, including some in highly technical fields, are headed by people
with liberal-arts degrees” Students with liberal arts degrees obtain an advantage over vocational
education students because they acquire more than job-specific knowledge. Critical thinking, 
communication, analytical reasoning is few of the many traits that this kind of education instills
in a student. Ungar explains, “Seventy percent said they were on the lookout for ‘the ability to
innovate and be creative’” Required general education courses such as in music or art enhance a
student’s creativity and innovation.
A liberal arts education instills ethical reasoning. A well informed and productive citizen
listens to both sides of an issue and deduces an unbiased stance based on information drawn from
multiple sources. Citizens acquire this analytical reasoning through a liberal arts education.
Ungar states, “[A liberal arts education] promotes the idea of listening to all points of view and
not relying on a single ideology” Biased media attempts to sway the population’s opinion by
providing one-sided information. A well-educated citizen collects information from multiple
sources before forming an opinion. Similarly, the same approach is used to solve problems in
everyday situations. Ungar states, “Examining all approaches to solving a problem rather than
assuming that one technique or perspective has all the answers” A liberal arts education creates a
citizen who has the capability of handling diverse dilemmas. The informed citizen looks at an
issue from several angles before attempting to solve it.
Through a liberal arts education, students develop into well-rounded productive citizens.
Though a job acquired through vocational education provides quicker money, a job acquired
through a liberal arts education not only pays more, but enhances the lifestyle of the student.
Studies in the arts such as music, theater, and art are not obsolete in today’s workforce because
they allow for greater creativity and the enhancement of thought as well as molds the student into
a more attractive candidate for employers.
